---
layout: post
title: "Coffee"
date: 2017-09-09
---

Coffee. It's something we either live or die by. As somewhat of a coffee enthusiast, I do enjoy a quality cup of coffee every morning. Whenever I travel, I make it a point to visit a new coffee shop. Even as I'm writing this, I'm drinking a fantastic cup of coffee at a local coffee shop, Restoration Roasters, in my hometown of Corona, CA. If I have free time, I'm usually sipping on some good coffee at one of my favorite coffee shops, <a href="https://www.dunecoffeeroasters.com/pages/locations" target="blank">French Press</a>. To me, a coffee shop provides both a sense of productivity and relaxation. Need to study? Coffee shop. Want to talk? Coffee Shop. Just bored? Coffee Shop. 

Recently, I've even started to homebrew coffee via the cold brew method. My current selection of coffee beans is from <a href="https://www.dunecoffeeroasters.com/" target="blank">Dune Coffee Roasters</a>. I use a manual burr grinder to get a consistent grind, and my vessel includes a filter in an airtight container. I've found that a nice medium-coarse to coarse grind works extremely well for a 24-hour extraction period. 

I'm the type of guy who likes to know the facts and science of what I do. In this case, that includes the chemistry of coffee. Everything from the different flavor profiles associated with different extraction times, the acids in coffee, and the temperature at which coffee is brewed.

The next step I plan to take in improving my cold brew is using the "hot bloom" method. This method involves a small amount of hot water at the beginning of the cold brew process. Normally, a cold brew extraction only involves room temperature or colder water for the entirety of the process, resulting in a coffee with virtually no acids. On the other hand, the "hot bloom" method involves wetting the grounds in a small amount of hot water for a short period of time (roughly 60 seconds) to release some desirable acids into the coffee. The method is completed with room temperature or colder water and left to slowly extract like a normal cold brew. The significance of this method is that the hot water releases a small amounts of acids that can complement the cold brew coffee's overall flavor profile. Normally, cold brew has little to no acidity because the acids in coffee are only released at higher temperatures. Coffees with more notable acid notes are often described and labeled as a "bright" coffee. Personally, I enjoy a more balanced brew, but I am still excited to try out this new method for my next batch of cold brew coffee. 

Update: After many different tests and further research, I realized that the hot bloom method rendered little change in the overall profile of my cold brew. I learned there are two ways to make cold brew coffee: immersion and drip. My current technique, immersion, involves letting the coffee come into direct contact with the water for the entire brewing period. Meanwhile, the drip method works similar to a pour over except with cold water and for a much longer amount of time. For now, I'm sticking with the immersion technique because it takes up less space in my apartment. 

Josh
